scripts/Packages/Package_Gullwing__QFP_SOIC_SO/Readme.md, before:

# IPC gullwing generator

This generator uses IPC-7351B equations and fillet definitions to derive a footprint for gullwing style packages from the dimensions of the package. (The suggested footprint is generally ignored. It is only used to define the exposed pad if necessary to fulfill thermal or EMC requirements defined in the datasheet.)
Fillet size definitions can be changed by pointing to a personalized IPC parameter file. The script generates footprints in zero orientation version A (pin 1 at top left corner).
Pads are generated using rounded rectangle pads as suggested in preliminary releases of IPC-7351C.

Examples of supported packages include: QFP, SOIC, SO.

## Running the script

The script requires python 3.4 or newer. Run it with:
`python3 ipc_gullwing_generator.py size_definitions/eqfp.yaml` (replace `eqfp.yaml` with the size definition file that contains your part.)

### Optional script parameters

* --global_config: the config file defining how the footprint will look like. (KLC) (default=`../../tools/global_config_files/config_KLCv3.0.yaml`)
* --series_config: the config file defining series parameters (footprint naming). (default=`../package_config_KLCv3.yaml`)

* --density: IPC density level (L,N,M) (default=`N`)
* --ipc_doc: IPC definition document (default=`../ipc_definitions.yaml`)

* --force_rectangle_pads: Force the generation of rectangle pads instead of rounded rectangle
* --kicad4_compatible: Create footprints compatible with version 4 (avoids round-rect and custom pads).

## Size definition format

Every file contains a header with parameters applied to all parts. These define the common footprint name prefix and the output library.

``` yaml
FileHeader:
  library_Suffix: 'QFP' #resulting library name Package_QFP
  device_type: 'EQFP' #footprint names will be of style ...EQFP-pincount_...
```

Alternatively, full output library name can be specified as following.

``` yaml
FileHeader:
  override_lib_name: 'Transformer_SMD' #resulting library name Transformer_SMD
  device_type: 'EQFP' #footprint names will be of style ...EQFP-pincount_...
```

---

Every further entry in the script is assumed to be a package size definition. The top level parameter will give the internal parameter set name. It must be unique in this file and should be representative of the footprint as it will be used in error messages. (It also makes later maintenance easier if it is easy to determine which footprint was generated by which parameter set.)

``` yaml
internal_package_name:
  # parameter list (See below)
```

### Documentation and naming parameters
- Size source to be added to footprint documentation field (`size_source`) {url}
- Footprint name generation control
  - Manufacturer name. Will be added as a prefix if given. (`manufacturer`) {string}
  - Part number. Will be added as a prefix if given. (`part_number`) {string}
  - Suffix: A custom suffix (added after pin pitch in default naming format). Can include parameters `pad_x` and `pad_y`.
  - Custom naming (`custom_name_format`) {python format string}
    - The full default format string is `{man:s}_{mpn:s}_{pkg:s}-{pincount:d}-1EP_{size_x:g}x{size_y:g}mm_P{pitch:g}mm{suffix:s}_EP{ep_size_x:g}x{ep_size_y:g}mm_Mask{mask_size_x:g}x{mask_size_y:g}mm{suffix2:s}{vias:s}` (The same parameters can be used in your custom format. Exposed pad parameters are not available for components without exposed pad.)

_Note: Contributions intended for the official library shall not include the manufacturer or part number unless the footprint is specific to that manufacturer or part. Similarly avoid custom naming for official library contributions unless required to achieve the requested name (Example TI-specific naming)._

### Package dimensions
![dimension example](./documentation/dimension_system.svg)
- Body size (`body_size_x`, `body_size_y`, `overall_height`) {dimension}
- Lead dimensions:
  - Overall size representing lead tip to lead tip dimension (`overall_size_x`, `overall_size_y`) {dimension}
  - Lead width (`lead_width`) {dimension}
  - Lead length distance between the lead bend and lead tip (`lead_len`) {dimension}
- Lead pitch, currently equal for all sides (`pitch`) {float}

### Pad count
- Pad count (`num_pins_x`, `num_pins_y`) {int}
  - `num_pins_x`=0 is used for generating SOIC-like packages.
  - `num_pins_y`=0 is used to generate SOIC-like package footprints but with inverted pin numbering. (Mirrored numbering scheme. Some manufactures use this style in their datasheets. Make sure you are not looking at the bottom view before using this. Not supported for QFP and similar.)
- Exclude pads:
  - (`deleted_pins`) {[`pad number`]}. The pads at the the given positions will be deleted. The pin numbers will remain consecutive: for example if pin 2 is hidden, the numbers will be 1, 2, 3, etc. The package will be named, e.g. `SOIC-16-12`.
  - (`hidden_pins`) {[`pad number`]}. The pads at the the given positions will be hidden. The pin numbers will skip the hidden pins: for example if pin 2 is hidden, the numbers will be 1, 3, 4, etc. The package will be named, e.g. `SOIC-12-16`.
- Pin count (`pin_count`) {int} overrides the number of pins in the footprint name. This is useful for packages with skipped pins like SC-74A, which is named as a 5-pin package, not a 6-pin package minus one pin.

### Exposed pad handling:
![exposed pad example](../documentation/ep_handling.svg)
- Size of package exposed pad or slug (`EP_size_x`, `EP_size_y`) {dimension}
- Size of the footprint pad [optional] (`EP_size_x_overwrite`, `EP_size_y_overwrite`) {float}
   - Pad size is equal to nominal package pad size if not given.
   - Use this to create a soldermask-defined pad.
- Optional the size of the mask cutout (`EP_mask_x`, `EP_mask_y`) {float}
   - Use to create soldermask-defined pads (in combination with `EP_size_x_overwrite`)
- Paste is split into a regular grid with (`EP_num_paste_pads`) {[int (x), int (y)]}
  - The optional paste coverage multiplier determines how much of the exposed copper area is covered by paste. (`EP_paste_coverage`) {float (0..1), default=0.65}

### Forcing pad sizing
- Non-IPC compliant footprints may force their datasheet pad sizes
  - Pad width (size in the direction of the adjacent pad) is forced using `pad_size_y_overwrite`
  - Pad length and spacing is forced using the `pad_to_pad_min_x_overwrite` and `pad_to_pad_max_x_overwrite` parameters
    - The minimum parameter is the heel-to-heel size between opposite rows of pads
    - The maximum parameter is the toe-to-toe size between opposite rows of pads
  - `pad_to_pad_min_y_overwrite` and `pad_to_pad_max_y_overwrite` are provided for top and bottom rows
  - N.B. using this or other overwrite parameters may yield invalid footprints if not checked after generation

### Rounding of exposed pad features
IPC excludes exposed pads from the requirement for rounding its corners. By default the exposed pad does therefore not use rounded corners. Some datasheets do however suggest the use of rounded corners either specified to a specific value or they appear to be equal to the normal pads.

![rounded exposed pad example](../documentation/ep_handling_rounded.svg)

- Paste corner rounding is controlled by global config parameters `paste_radius_ratio` and
`paste_maximum_radius` {float}
- The round radius of the exposed pad can be directly set with `EP_round_radius` {float/"pad"}
  - The string "pad" can be used to force the same radius for the exposed pad as for the normal pads.
  - Alternatively the round radius ratio and max radius can be set using (`EP_round_radius_ratio`, `EP_maximum_radius`) {float}
    - Both these can be set per-footprint or in the global config file.

### Thermal vias
A package with exposed pad can generate a version with thermal vias. This will be generated in addition to the normal version.

![exposed pad example](../documentation/thermal_vias.svg)

``` yaml
  thermal_vias:
    # thermal via version parameters
```
- Number of vias generated in the regular grid (`count`) {[int (x), int (y)]}
- Final hole size (`drill`) {float}
- Optional grid (`grid`) {[float (x), float (y)]}
  - Auto-generated if not given (outermost pad will touch pad edge).
- Paste coverage overwrite [optional] (`EP_paste_coverage`) {float (0..1)}
  - Thermal via version might need higher paste coverage compared to non-via version to compensate solder lost due to wicking.
- Paste generator can be set up to avoid placing paste on top of vias (`paste_avoid_via`) {bool}
  - Clearance between via hole and paste (`paste_via_clearance`) {float}
  - Can lead to math exceptions. Possible fixes:
     - Reduce paste coverage (make sure you still have enough paste)
     - Play with the via grid and number of paste pads (having an outer ring of paste pads often helps. This is only possible if there is space on the outside)
     - If no fix is satisfactory then select avoid vias as false and increase paste coverage to combat solder loss.
- Number paste pads
  - Quantity of paste pads (`EP_num_paste_pads`) {[int (x), int (y)]}
  - Alternative available if `paste_avoid_via` is true
    - Number of paste pads between 4 vias (`paste_between_vias`) {[int (x), int (y)]}
    - Number of additional paste pad rings outside the outermost vias [optional] (`paste_rings_outside`) {[int (x), int (y)]}


## Dimension parameter format
Dimensions in datasheets are either given with minimum and maximum value (optionally including nominal) or with the nominal value plus a tolerance. Some values of the datasheet are given as reference value without tolerance. (Tolerances in this measurement are already included in other dimensions.) The script reflects this by offering the same options.

Always include the nominal dimension if the tolerance is asymmetrical as the resulting footprint will differ if it is not included.

_Note: Contributions that are intended for the official KiCad library must use the same dimensioning format as the datasheet. (If min, nom and max are given then all 3 must be entered into the YAML file even if the tolerance is symmetrical. Similarly use nominal plus tolerance format if the datasheet is dimensioned this way.)_

### String-based

The parameter can be given as a string in one of the following formats (white space characters are ignored).

```yaml
parameter_name: 1.2 # nominal only (reference dimension marked as such in datasheet)
parameter_name: 1.1 .. 1.2 .. 1.3 # min .. nominal .. max
parameter_name: 1.1 .. 1.3 # min .. max
parameter_name: 1.2 +/-0.1 # nominal plus symmetrical tolerance
parameter_name: 1.2 +0.1 -0.05 # nominal plus asymmetrical tolerance
```

### Dict-based

```yaml
parameter_name: # nominal only
  nominal: 1.2
  tolerance: 0 # optional to make it clear that this is the case
parameter_name: # minimum maximum and nominal
  minimum: 1.1
  nominal: 1.2
  maximum: 1.3
parameter_name: # minimum maximum
  minimum: 1.1
  maximum: 1.3
parameter_name: # nominal with symmetrical tolerance
  nominal: 1.2
  tolerance: 0.1
parameter_name: # nominal with asymmetrical tolerance
  nominal: 1.2
  tolerance: [-0.05, 0.1] # order does not matter, the sign is important.
```

### Deprecated format

Support for this format will be dropped in the future. This format only supports min, nom, max dimensioning.

```yaml
parameter_name_min: 1.1
parameter_name: 1.2
parameter_name_max: 1.3
```

## Inheritance

The YAML configuration file supports inheritance. Using `inherit` allows to create
versions of a part by just overwriting specific parameters. See the example below:

```yaml
Part-A:
  param1: 1
  param2: 2

Part-B:
  inherit: Part-A
  param2: 3
```

In this case, `Part-B` will have the same parameters as `Part-A` except for `param2`.

Commit message:

Gullwing: allow additional tags and also a special list of compatible MPNs

scripts/Packages/Package_Gullwing__QFP_SOIC_SO/Readme.md, after:

# IPC gullwing generator

This generator uses IPC-7351B equations and fillet definitions to derive a footprint for gullwing style packages from the dimensions of the package. (The suggested footprint is generally ignored. It is only used to define the exposed pad if necessary to fulfill thermal or EMC requirements defined in the datasheet.)
Fillet size definitions can be changed by pointing to a personalized IPC parameter file. The script generates footprints in zero orientation version A (pin 1 at top left corner).
Pads are generated using rounded rectangle pads as suggested in preliminary releases of IPC-7351C.

Examples of supported packages include: QFP, SOIC, SO.

## Running the script

The script requires python 3.4 or newer. Run it with:
`python3 ipc_gullwing_generator.py size_definitions/eqfp.yaml` (replace `eqfp.yaml` with the size definition file that contains your part.)

### Optional script parameters

* --global_config: the config file defining how the footprint will look like. (KLC) (default=`../../tools/global_config_files/config_KLCv3.0.yaml`)
* --series_config: the config file defining series parameters (footprint naming). (default=`../package_config_KLCv3.yaml`)

* --density: IPC density level (L,N,M) (default=`N`)
* --ipc_doc: IPC definition document (default=`../ipc_definitions.yaml`)

* --force_rectangle_pads: Force the generation of rectangle pads instead of rounded rectangle
* --kicad4_compatible: Create footprints compatible with version 4 (avoids round-rect and custom pads).

## Size definition format

Every file contains a header with parameters applied to all parts. These define the common footprint name prefix and the output library.

``` yaml
FileHeader:
  library_Suffix: 'QFP' #resulting library name Package_QFP
  device_type: 'EQFP' #footprint names will be of style ...EQFP-pincount_...
```

Alternatively, full output library name can be specified as following.

``` yaml
FileHeader:
  override_lib_name: 'Transformer_SMD' #resulting library name Transformer_SMD
  device_type: 'EQFP' #footprint names will be of style ...EQFP-pincount_...
```

---

Every further entry in the script is assumed to be a package size definition. The top level parameter will give the internal parameter set name. It must be unique in this file and should be representative of the footprint as it will be used in error messages. (It also makes later maintenance easier if it is easy to determine which footprint was generated by which parameter set.)

``` yaml
internal_package_name:
  # parameter list (See below)
```

### Documentation and naming parameters
- Size source to be added to footprint documentation field (`size_source`) {url}
- Footprint name generation control
  - Manufacturer name. Will be added as a prefix if given. (`manufacturer`) {string}
  - Part number. Will be added as a prefix if given. (`part_number`) {string}
  - Suffix: A custom suffix (added after pin pitch in default naming format). Can include parameters `pad_x` and `pad_y`.
  - Custom naming (`custom_name_format`) {python format string}
    - The full default format string is `{man:s}_{mpn:s}_{pkg:s}-{pincount:d}-1EP_{size_x:g}x{size_y:g}mm_P{pitch:g}mm{suffix:s}_EP{ep_size_x:g}x{ep_size_y:g}mm_Mask{mask_size_x:g}x{mask_size_y:g}mm{suffix2:s}{vias:s}` (The same parameters can be used in your custom format. Exposed pad parameters are not available for components without exposed pad.)
- Tags
  - `additional_tags` {[string]}: Additional freeform tags to be added to the footprint metadata
  - `compatible_mpns` {[string]}: List of compatible part numbers. These will be added to the footprint metadata as tags.

_Note: Contributions intended for the official library shall not include the manufacturer or part number unless the footprint is specific to that manufacturer or part. Similarly avoid custom naming for official library contributions unless required to achieve the requested name (Example TI-specific naming)._

### Package dimensions
![dimension example](./documentation/dimension_system.svg)
- Body size (`body_size_x`, `body_size_y`, `overall_height`) {dimension}
- Lead dimensions:
  - Overall size representing lead tip to lead tip dimension (`overall_size_x`, `overall_size_y`) {dimension}
  - Lead width (`lead_width`) {dimension}
  - Lead length distance between the lead bend and lead tip (`lead_len`) {dimension}
- Lead pitch, currently equal for all sides (`pitch`) {float}

### Pad count
- Pad count (`num_pins_x`, `num_pins_y`) {int}
  - `num_pins_x`=0 is used for generating SOIC-like packages.
  - `num_pins_y`=0 is used to generate SOIC-like package footprints but with inverted pin numbering. (Mirrored numbering scheme. Some manufactures use this style in their datasheets. Make sure you are not looking at the bottom view before using this. Not supported for QFP and similar.)
- Exclude pads:
  - (`deleted_pins`) {[`pad number`]}. The pads at the the given positions will be deleted. The pin numbers will remain consecutive: for example if pin 2 is hidden, the numbers will be 1, 2, 3, etc. The package will be named, e.g. `SOIC-16-12`.
  - (`hidden_pins`) {[`pad number`]}. The pads at the the given positions will be hidden. The pin numbers will skip the hidden pins: for example if pin 2 is hidden, the numbers will be 1, 3, 4, etc. The package will be named, e.g. `SOIC-12-16`.
- Pin count (`pin_count`) {int} overrides the number of pins in the footprint name. This is useful for packages with skipped pins like SC-74A, which is named as a 5-pin package, not a 6-pin package minus one pin.

### Exposed pad handling:
![exposed pad example](../documentation/ep_handling.svg)
- Size of package exposed pad or slug (`EP_size_x`, `EP_size_y`) {dimension}
- Size of the footprint pad [optional] (`EP_size_x_overwrite`, `EP_size_y_overwrite`) {float}
   - Pad size is equal to nominal package pad size if not given.
   - Use this to create a soldermask-defined pad.
- Optional the size of the mask cutout (`EP_mask_x`, `EP_mask_y`) {float}
   - Use to create soldermask-defined pads (in combination with `EP_size_x_overwrite`)
- Paste is split into a regular grid with (`EP_num_paste_pads`) {[int (x), int (y)]}
  - The optional paste coverage multiplier determines how much of the exposed copper area is covered by paste. (`EP_paste_coverage`) {float (0..1), default=0.65}

### Forcing pad sizing
- Non-IPC compliant footprints may force their datasheet pad sizes
  - Pad width (size in the direction of the adjacent pad) is forced using `pad_size_y_overwrite`
  - Pad length and spacing is forced using the `pad_to_pad_min_x_overwrite` and `pad_to_pad_max_x_overwrite` parameters
    - The minimum parameter is the heel-to-heel size between opposite rows of pads
    - The maximum parameter is the toe-to-toe size between opposite rows of pads
  - `pad_to_pad_min_y_overwrite` and `pad_to_pad_max_y_overwrite` are provided for top and bottom rows
  - N.B. using this or other overwrite parameters may yield invalid footprints if not checked after generation

### Rounding of exposed pad features
IPC excludes exposed pads from the requirement for rounding its corners. By default the exposed pad does therefore not use rounded corners. Some datasheets do however suggest the use of rounded corners either specified to a specific value or they appear to be equal to the normal pads.

![rounded exposed pad example](../documentation/ep_handling_rounded.svg)

- Paste corner rounding is controlled by global config parameters `paste_radius_ratio` and
`paste_maximum_radius` {float}
- The round radius of the exposed pad can be directly set with `EP_round_radius` {float/"pad"}
  - The string "pad" can be used to force the same radius for the exposed pad as for the normal pads.
  - Alternatively the round radius ratio and max radius can be set using (`EP_round_radius_ratio`, `EP_maximum_radius`) {float}
    - Both these can be set per-footprint or in the global config file.

### Thermal vias
A package with exposed pad can generate a version with thermal vias. This will be generated in addition to the normal version.

![exposed pad example](../documentation/thermal_vias.svg)

``` yaml
  thermal_vias:
    # thermal via version parameters
```
- Number of vias generated in the regular grid (`count`) {[int (x), int (y)]}
- Final hole size (`drill`) {float}
- Optional grid (`grid`) {[float (x), float (y)]}
  - Auto-generated if not given (outermost pad will touch pad edge).
- Paste coverage overwrite [optional] (`EP_paste_coverage`) {float (0..1)}
  - Thermal via version might need higher paste coverage compared to non-via version to compensate solder lost due to wicking.
- Paste generator can be set up to avoid placing paste on top of vias (`paste_avoid_via`) {bool}
  - Clearance between via hole and paste (`paste_via_clearance`) {float}
  - Can lead to math exceptions. Possible fixes:
     - Reduce paste coverage (make sure you still have enough paste)
     - Play with the via grid and number of paste pads (having an outer ring of paste pads often helps. This is only possible if there is space on the outside)
     - If no fix is satisfactory then select avoid vias as false and increase paste coverage to combat solder loss.
- Number paste pads
  - Quantity of paste pads (`EP_num_paste_pads`) {[int (x), int (y)]}
  - Alternative available if `paste_avoid_via` is true
    - Number of paste pads between 4 vias (`paste_between_vias`) {[int (x), int (y)]}
    - Number of additional paste pad rings outside the outermost vias [optional] (`paste_rings_outside`) {[int (x), int (y)]}


## Dimension parameter format
Dimensions in datasheets are either given with minimum and maximum value (optionally including nominal) or with the nominal value plus a tolerance. Some values of the datasheet are given as reference value without tolerance. (Tolerances in this measurement are already included in other dimensions.) The script reflects this by offering the same options.

Always include the nominal dimension if the tolerance is asymmetrical as the resulting footprint will differ if it is not included.

_Note: Contributions that are intended for the official KiCad library must use the same dimensioning format as the datasheet. (If min, nom and max are given then all 3 must be entered into the YAML file even if the tolerance is symmetrical. Similarly use nominal plus tolerance format if the datasheet is dimensioned this way.)_

### String-based

The parameter can be given as a string in one of the following formats (white space characters are ignored).

```yaml
parameter_name: 1.2 # nominal only (reference dimension marked as such in datasheet)
parameter_name: 1.1 .. 1.2 .. 1.3 # min .. nominal .. max
parameter_name: 1.1 .. 1.3 # min .. max
parameter_name: 1.2 +/-0.1 # nominal plus symmetrical tolerance
parameter_name: 1.2 +0.1 -0.05 # nominal plus asymmetrical tolerance
```

### Dict-based

```yaml
parameter_name: # nominal only
  nominal: 1.2
  tolerance: 0 # optional to make it clear that this is the case
parameter_name: # minimum maximum and nominal
  minimum: 1.1
  nominal: 1.2
  maximum: 1.3
parameter_name: # minimum maximum
  minimum: 1.1
  maximum: 1.3
parameter_name: # nominal with symmetrical tolerance
  nominal: 1.2
  tolerance: 0.1
parameter_name: # nominal with asymmetrical tolerance
  nominal: 1.2
  tolerance: [-0.05, 0.1] # order does not matter, the sign is important.
```

### Deprecated format

Support for this format will be dropped in the future. This format only supports min, nom, max dimensioning.

```yaml
parameter_name_min: 1.1
parameter_name: 1.2
parameter_name_max: 1.3
```

## Inheritance

The YAML configuration file supports inheritance. Using `inherit` allows to create
versions of a part by just overwriting specific parameters. See the example below:

```yaml
Part-A:
  param1: 1
  param2: 2

Part-B:
  inherit: Part-A
  param2: 3
```

In this case, `Part-B` will have the same parameters as `Part-A` except for `param2`.
